community: Overhaul Databricks provider documentation (#23203)
langchain-ai/langchain: docs/docs/integrations/providers/databricks.md

Databricks
==========

> [Databricks](https://www.databricks.com/) Intelligence Platform is the world's first data intelligence platform powered by generative AI. Infuse AI into every facet of your business.

Databricks embraces the LangChain ecosystem in various ways:

> 1. 🚀 **Model Serving** - Access state-of-the-art LLMs or your fine-tuned models on [Databricks Model Serving](https://www.databricks.com/product/model-serving), via a highly available and low-latency inference endpoint. LangChain provides LLM (`Databricks`), Chat Model (`ChatDatabricks`), and Embeddings (`DatabricksEmbeddings`) implementations, streamlines the integration of your models hosted on Databricks Model Serving into your LangChain application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. 🚀 **Model Serving** - Access state-of-the-art LLMs or your fine-tuned models on [Databricks Model Serving](https://www.databricks.com/product/model-serving), via a highly available and low-latency inference endpoint. LangChain provides LLM (`Databricks`), Chat Model (`ChatDatabricks`), and Embeddings (`DatabricksEmbeddings`) implementations, streamlining the integration of your models hosted on Databricks Model Serving with your LangChain applications.
```

> 2. 📃 **Vector Search** - [Databricks Vector Search](https://www.databricks.com/product/machine-learning/vector-search) is a serverless vector database seamlessly integrated in teh Databricks Platform. Using `DatabricksVectorSearch`, you can incorporate the highly scalable and reliable similarity search engine into your LangChain application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. 📃 **Vector Search** - [Databricks Vector Search](https://www.databricks.com/product/machine-learning/vector-search) is a serverless vector database seamlessly integrated within the Databricks Platform. Using `DatabricksVectorSearch`, you can incorporate the highly scalable and reliable similarity search engine into your LangChain applications.
```

> 3. 📊 **MLflow** - [MLflow](https://mlflow.org/) is an open-source platrofm to manage the MLf lifecycle, including experiment management, evaluation, tracing, deployment, and more. [MLflow LangChain Integration](../providers/mlflow_tracking.ipynb) streamline the process of developing and operating modern compound ML systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. 📊 **MLflow** - [MLflow](https://mlflow.org/) is an open-source platrofm to manage the MLf lifecycle, including experiment management, evaluation, tracing, deployment, and more. [MLflow LangChain Integration](/docs/integrations/providers/mlflow_tracking) streamline the process of developing and operating modern compound ML systems.
```

Author: Ahh makes sense, thank you so much for the pointers @ccurme !!

> 3. 📊 **MLflow** - [MLflow](https://mlflow.org/) is an open-source platrofm to manage the MLf lifecycle, including experiment management, evaluation, tracing, deployment, and more. [MLflow LangChain Integration](/docs/integrations/providers/mlflow_tracking) streamline the process of developing and operating modern compound ML systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. 📊 **MLflow** - [MLflow](https://mlflow.org/) is an open-source platform to manage the full ML lifecycle, including experiment management, evaluation, tracing, deployment and more. [MLflow's LangChain Integration](/docs/integrations/providers/mlflow_tracking) streamlines the process of developing and operating modern compound ML systems.
```

> 4. 🌐 **SQL Database** - [Databricks SQL](https://www.databricks.com/product/databricks-sql) is integrated with `SQLDatabase` in LangChain, allowing you to access the auto-optimizing best performant data warehouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. 🌐 **SQL Database** - [Databricks SQL](https://www.databricks.com/product/databricks-sql) is integrated with `SQLDatabase` in LangChain, allowing you to access the auto-optimizing, exceptionally performant data warehouse.
```
just to avoid flamewars ;)

> 5. 💡 **Open Models** - Databricks open-sourced [DBRX](https://www.databricks.com/blog/introducing-dbrx-new-state-art-open-llm) model which allows for commercial use, and can be accessed through the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/databricks/dbrx-instruct).

Reviewer: Since we're hosting a fleet of these now, should we rephrase this to make a list of models that can be used (non-exhaustive) that highlights DBRX along with other popular open-source transformers-compatible models?

Chat Model
----------

> `ChatDatabricks` is a Chat Model class to access chat endpoints hosted on Databricks, including state-of-the-art models such as Llama3, Mixtral, and DBRX, as well as your fine-tuned models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ChatDatabricks` is a Chat Model class to access chat endpoints hosted on Databricks, including state-of-the-art models such as Llama3, Mixtral, and DBRX, as well as your own fine-tuned models.
```

```
from langchain_community.chat_models.databricks import ChatDatabricks

chat_model = ChatDatabricks(endpoint="databricks-meta-llama-3-70b-instruct")
```

> See [usage example](/docs/integrations/chat/databricks) for more guidance for how to use it within your LangChain application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [usage example](/docs/integrations/chat/databricks) for more guidance on how to use it within your LangChain application.
```

LLM
---

`Databricks` is an LLM class to access completion endpoints hosted on Databricks.

```
from langchain_community.llm.databricks import Databricks

llm = Databricks(endpoint="your-completion-endpoint")
```

> See [usage example](/docs/integrations/llms/databricks) for more guidance for how to use it within your LangChain application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [usage example](/docs/integrations/llms/databricks) for more guidance on how to use it within your LangChain application.
```

Embeddings
----------

> `DatabricksEmbeddings` is an Embeddings class to access text-embedding endpoints hosted on Databricks, including state-of-the-art models such as BGE, as well as your fine-tuned models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DatabricksEmbeddings` is an Embeddings class to access text-embedding endpoints hosted on Databricks, including state-of-the-art models such as BGE, as well as your own fine-tuned models.
```

```
from langchain_community.embeddings import DatabricksEmbeddings

embeddings = DatabricksEmbeddings(endpoint="databricks-bge-large-en")
```

> See [usage example](/docs/integrations/text_embedding/databricks) for more guidance for how to use it within your LangChain application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [usage example](/docs/integrations/text_embedding/databricks) for more guidance on how to use it within your LangChain application.
```

Vector Search
-------------

> Databricks Vector Search is a serverless similarity search engine that allows you to store a vector representation of your data, including metadata, in a vector database. With Vector Search, you can create auto-updating vector search indexes from Delta tables managed by Unity Catalog and query them with a simple API to return the most similar vectors.

Reviewer: Can we add links for Delta and UC?

```
from langchain_community.vectorstores import DatabricksVectorSearch

dvs = DatabricksVectorSearch(
    index, text_column="text", embedding=embeddings, columns=["source"]
)
docs = dvs.similarity_search("What is vector search?)
```

> See [usage example](/docs/integrations/vectorstores/databricks_vector_search) for how to set up vector indices and integrate it with LangChain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [usage example](/docs/integrations/vectorstores/databricks_vector_search) for how to set up vector indices and integrate them with LangChain.
```

MLflow Integration
------------------

In the context of LangChain integration, MLflow provides the following capabilities:

> - **Experiment Tracking**: Tracks and stores models and artifacts from your LangChain experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Experiment Tracking**: Tracks and stores model, artifacts, and traces from your LangChain experiments.
```

> - **Dependency Management**: Automatically records dependency libraries, ensuring consistency between development and production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dependency Management**: Automatically records dependency libraries, ensuring consistency among  development, staging and production environments.
```

- **Model Evaluation** Offers native capabilities for evaluating LangChain applications.
- **Tracing**: Visually traces data flows through your LangChain application.

> See [MLflow LangChain Integration](/docs/integrations/providers/mlflow_tracking) to learn about the full ability of LangChain with MLflow and code examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [MLflow LangChain Integration](/docs/integrations/providers/mlflow_tracking) to learn about the full capabilities of using MLflow with LangChain through extensive code examples and guides.
```

SQLDatabase
-----------
You can connect to Databricks SQL using the SQLDatabase wrapper of LangChain.
```
from langchain.sql_database import SQLDatabase

db = SQLDatabase.from_databricks(catalog="samples", schema="nyctaxi")
```

See [Databricks SQL Agent](https://docs.databricks.com/en/large-language-models/langchain.html#databricks-sql-agent) for how to connect Databricks SQL with your LangChain Agent as a powerful querying tool.

Open Models
-----------

> To directly integrate Databricks's open models hosted on HuggingFace, you can use [HuggingFace Integration](/docs/integrations/platforms/huggingface) of LangChain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To directly integrate Databricks's open models hosted on HuggingFace, you can use the [HuggingFace Integration](/docs/integrations/platforms/huggingface) of LangChain.
```
